You were relating your view of the people of
Vietnam. How do you feel about the Army of South
Vietnam, the ARVN? Not very well. They weren't
worth the powder to kill them all with. Some
elitist type units, such as the ARVN Rangers, ARVN
Special Forces, ARVN SEALs, we had our
counterparts in the ARVN all the way along, were
fairly good. They were really hardcore trained in
the warrior spirit. You could have pointed them in
any direction. The enemy wouldn't have mattered.
Just go do, kill, destroy, and they would have done
it. In that sense, they were okay, but that's not
what wins a war for a nation. It's the support of the
nation, the people behind it, and so on, such as we
had in World War II. It was a common enemy to the
whole world. And everyone pulled together more or
less, to win that war. There were a lot of war
protestors then. The Civil War, the American
Revolutionary War. There was always somebody
protesting war. That's been going on for
thousands of years, thousands of generations.
But in World War II, there was a common goal. In
Vietnam, there wasn't. The people of Vietnam did
not have a common goal, other than they just wanted
to be left alone, grow their rice, raise their kids
so the kids could grow their rice and raise more
kids. Very simple people. Didn't require a whole
lot. Very superstitious people. And they
were not ambitious at all. They were bellicose.
Life meant nothing to them. But to look at them at
the time, they weren't helping me help them. And
that's all I saw. and I had absolutely no use for
them. That developed over a period of time. Like I
said, I went in there trying not to be the ugly
American, having lived in several foreign
countries and traveled Europe and so on and so
forth, and it got along quite well. I learned to
speak German fairly fluently in the villages and
in the towns, not in the classroom. Gained respect
and many friends in Germany.
Didn't go to the GI hangout. That's just the way my
thought pattern is. And I tried the same thing in
Vietnam. It didn't work. It did not work at all. All
they wanted was everything I had. The Montagnards
of Vietnam I still to this day hold in high esteem.
They're the mountain people. That's what
Montagnard means. They took it on the chin, even
from the Vietnamese. The Vietnamese hated it.
Everybody hated it. They were independent
mountain people. They lived their own lives. They
were ferocious warriors, too. One of the most
ferocious I ever met was a 13-year-old kid. And he
was the platoon leader of a mercenary force, or
might force for a special forces operation.
And that's fixing to get off into a war story, and I
don't tell war stories. But he was a ferocious
fighter. And I gave his body back to his
grandfather, brought it in on my ship. That's the
kind of people they were. They were, of course,
primitive, extremely superstitious. Case in
point, I was carrying a med cap team into a
Montagnard village just to help them out
medicine-wise, inoculate the kids and stuff like
that, and try and help them out wherever they
could. And that morning, a pair of twins had been
born. And they were going through the ceremony of
burying these twins alive because they were
twins. And that was an evil omen. Now, that's how
superstitious and printed they were. We bought
the twins for a hunting knife and some beads. They
didn't know what money was, but that had no value to
them. They could use a knife. Oh, yeah, I gave them
some bullets, too, for an AK-47 they had. And some
shotgun shells. And that's what we bought those
twins with. We turned them over to some
missionaries. Whatever happened with that, I
don't know. But the Montagnards, I liked those
people. They knew what they wanted. They knew
where they stood. They were willing to die for it.
Now, that I respect, but I'm a warrior. And that's
the way I've trained myself to be all my life. Even
when I was a little kid, that's what I wanted to be.
So that holds the highest esteem for me. At that
time, in particular, the Vietnamese population
in general weren't that way. The peasants wanted
to be left alone. They didn't want anything to do
with anybody. The European influenced part of the
populace was trying to grab anything they could
get. The old How the words of that song go, the old,
old story, a play for power and glory, something
like that. That's what they were after. It's
biblical. And it was their downfall. They
destroyed themselves. But they killed a lot of my
friends in the process.
And that part I did not like. Could you let your view
of the VC or the VidCon, you know, What you felt they
were fighting for? They were fighting for an idea.
They had an idea. As I mentioned earlier, the
communists simply told those people and
demonstrated to them the truth about their own
government, how corrupt it was, and that we were
adding to that corruption. We were no better than
what they had. This wasn't hard to demonstrate.
their hard part was to convince the populace that
they were the answer rather than us and they did
this through some pretty vicious means as far as
fighting us yeah it was pretty dirty and we hated
them we'd kill them on sight it was they were fair
game but i really had to hand it to them the vc
mortarmen were the best i ever saw that couple of
guys on the mortar you know untrained unskilled
but yet trained and skilled farmers by day,
mortarmen by night. They could put ten rounds in
the air, move the tube, and start ten more before
the first one hit the ground. And be accurate. They
were really good. But they had an idea that they
wanted to free their country from the yoke of
colonialism. And we hear it referred to as
imperialism. That's really not. Everything's
imperialistic. But it was the colonialism that
had oppressed them for so many, many, many years.
And they had this idea, much like what we had in the
late 1700s, of throwing off a colonial yoke. And
they believed in it, just like our forefathers
believed in it. And our forefathers were the
ragtag bunch of ill-fed, ill-equipped, and
untrained people defeated the British Empire.
beat them into submission until they could not
afford to wage war anymore. The VC did exactly the
same thing to us.
The saddest part of all this is we haven't learned
the lesson from it. I recognize it for what it is
now, but then I did not. But I did respect the true VC
soldier. And the NBA sold. I respected my enemy. I
saw him do a job on us too many times not to. We had
them overpowered. We were smarter and better
equipped, and we could have outlasted them had we
had a will to win. We didn't. They did. They have the
country. We don't. They have a lot of the stuff we
left behind. We don't. They're not as prosperous
as they said they were going to be. In fact, it's a
disaster. But they got it. And they don't. I
honestly believe that what those people needed
was what they got. That's what they
understand. Did that answer your question?
We'll shift gears here a bit and talk about
politics in the United States. When you served in
Vietnam, you served under both President Johnson
and Nixon. What do you think of their
administrations, their effects on the world,
their effects on you? Johnson inherited the
Vietnam War from Kennedy. And from what I
understand now, Kennedy wanted to bail out of it,
but didn't know how to do it gracefully. And then he
got assassinated, and Johnson inherited the
thing. He made the mistake of believing Wes
Moreland. He didn't know what to do. And whatever
he did was wrong. Any way he turned was wrong. I got
real upset and angry with him when he stopped the
bombing along Ho Chi Minh Trail because I was
directly at the brunt of that stuff and it directly
affected me. And we started getting plastered
real good because they started getting
resupplied real good. Under Nixon, everything
was winding down. While I was there on my second
tour, we turned over the big 9th Infantry Division
facility at Dong Tam to the Vietnamese. This is
going to be another nail in their integrity
coffin. I flew in there one day on the way to Saigon.
while they were having this ceremony of turning
the place over. They directed us way out and around
and had to come in an oddball way so that we wouldn't
disturb them. And we saw it from the air and
remarked about it and made snide remarks and
yelled and screamed and hollered at them. Of
course, they couldn't hear us. But they had a real
nice air facility there. Real nice revetments
with solid steel planking, steel posts in the
ground, dirt three foot thick in it, you know, that
was kind of protected from shrapnel and stuff like
that. And a real nice refueling facility, a nice
shed there for the operators to get in and out of
elements. Just a real nice facility. And we came
back through late that afternoon. This was fairly
early in the morning, about, well, I guess it was
late in the morning, about 9 o'clock, 10 o'clock,
something like that. It was fairly late. We'd been
going through daylight. But we came back late that
afternoon and stopped for fuel again. The place
was stripped bare. There wasn't a piece of metal in
sight.
While they were turning the facility over to the
Vietnamese, the soldiers and civilians were out
there stripping it of anything of value. Same
thing happened with the Navy facility in Bintui.
They were down the street having a ceremony,
turning it over to them, and the guys were down the
other end of the street taking the urinals and
toilets out of the building and taking them home so
they could sell it. Some of them didn't even have a
place to hook it up. They were just taking it. That
led to that, but I'm getting off the subject here.
Nixon, pretty much in his era, was winding things
down, which I kind of appreciate. I wish he had just
said, it's over, finished, get on the truck, let's
go home. Well, he took too long in doing it and it
cost more lives, but finally he declared victory
and we left, which is about the only way we could
have done it, really. And we all laughed about it
then. We were all sarcastic and cynical about it.
But in retrospect, that's the only thing he could
have done. Just jumped up and said, we win, and
left. I just wish he'd have done it sooner. Johnson
I had no use for. Nixon either. We got less for
Johnson. He could have stopped things, and he
didn't. He made it worse. He could have bailed out,
but he didn't. And he knew he could have. So much for
politics.
Politics and soldiers make strange bedfellows,
some of us said. You had said something about
Westmoreland.
How did you see his methods, the strategy that he
had followed?
Westmoreland did not believe that fraggings were
going on. He would not accept the fact that drugs
were rampant after 69 and 70 through there. They
were rampant throughout the military in
Southeast Asia, not just the Army. He wouldn't
accept it.
A year ago, I listened to Westmoreland give a
speech in Houston at the gathering of Vietnam
veterans at the Welcome Home Parade they had. I led
that parade, by the way. Didn't know it when it
happened, but as it turned out, when we got to the
other end, I said, where's everybody at? And some
guy said, hey, they're all behind us. We're in
front. I said, ain't that something? And it was all
helicopter pilots. And we led the way, and I
carried the banner the whole three miles. God, did
my feet hurt. But I listened to him give a speech
that afternoon against the movie Platoon, which
he admitted at the time he hadn't even seen it. And
he wanted all of us to write our congressmen and
anybody else of any import to have the thing
done away with. Not to show it. Don't go see it.
That's censorship. Of the worst kind. He thought
that it was all a bunch of hooey. Well, I know
better. I did see the movie. I have a tape of the
movie. I've studied the movie. It crammed a lot
into a little bit of time, but it made more sense
than the other idiotic things that they put out.
I'm not even talking about Rambo. I don't even
mention that. That's pure bull. But Apocalypse
Now was an abstract thing, way out on the edges of
believability. But the things that occurred in
Platoon did happen. People smoked dope. People
shot their leaders in the back. Leaders shot their
people. Every kind of human emotion that you can
think of comes out in stress situations like
combat, particularly in combat, particularly
where you've got a gun and people expect you to kill
something. That happens. When you turn kids loose
like that without good guidance and direction,
they take so much and they just crack. And they just
start killing anything in sight.
When we were kids, we'd throw rocks at things.
Their rock was an M-16. So these things did happen.
Westmoreland refused to accept it. He didn't
believe it and wanted the rest of us not to believe
it. The drug problem became rampant because he
wouldn't address it. He was telling the Congress
and the President that this was this way and that
was that way, and it wasn't that way at all. He blew
it on Tet, 68. They caught us with our pants down,
plain and simple. We came back and did something
about it, but we could have stopped it long before
it ever started, months before it ever started, if
he'd have only listened to these intelligence
people. They were telling him that the thing was
going to happen. And he wouldn't accept it. He was
too much of the old school, too much West Point. Way
too much West Point.
You were saying about Westmoreland and his
strategies. I mean, how do you feel about the other
officers that you were under? Not very much. On the
subject of shooting the leaders, I came very close
to it myself. A particular operation that
happened in the Docto area, Firebase 19. I watched
a lot of people, including my roommate in flight
school, die that day. I watched the bullets hit his
body. I watched him rip open his fuel tank. He'd
been shot down in the LZ. He was a medevac pilot. He
was going in trying to rescue people. He got shot
down, and then he got wounded getting out of the
aircraft. And it was the only cover there, so they
stayed right there. And I was coming in to get him
until the ship blew up in front of me. And I watched
the burning fuel spew out over him, and I watched it
fry him. All because this one battalion commander
advertised for three days exactly where we were
going to land. And he put ordnance artillery
everywhere but that place. It was the only safe
place for the NVA to be. And they were there when we
got there. And they hurt us real bad. Hurt us bad. I
come close to killing that battalion commander. I
believe it's, if I remember correctly,
seven-and-a-half-pound trigger pull on a
standard issue .45 automatic. I had about three
ounces to go. And my crew chief, a very big
strapping kid from Pennsylvania, took the gun
away from me, picked me up off the ground, and
carried me away. Somebody else carried that
colonel away. He couldn't walk. I'd already done
the job on him. They got him out of country that day
because I wasn't the only one to complain. That
whole battalion was ready to kill him. for what was
left of them, most of them were dead. So some of
their operations they planned were just asinine.
They were elaborate wallboard drawings with
elaborate time schedules and artillery
schedules and things like this that were going to
get somebody killed if they were so much as 10
seconds off. I was air mission commander one day on
a particular one of these forces. And I canceled
the entire mission because of the elaboracy of the
thing. And in the briefing, when it got around to
me, this battalion commander said, who's the air
mission commander? And I stuck my hand up. I had 13
ships to help me make this assault with. Unlucky
number, but we liked it that way. It was my call sign
was 13. Gladiator 1-3. He asked me what I thought
about it. I said, I think your plan stinks, and I'm
not going to use my aircraft to do it. You're going
to get my people killed. He exploded, ordered me
off the field. We left. My battalion commander
came in, told him he was crazy. If he'd tell me where
he wanted his troops picked up and where he wanted
them put, we would do that. But we weren't going to
play his stupid, silly games. So my battalion
commander was pretty sharp. He backed me up. And we
didn't do it. And the mission was canceled. And it
would have gotten Probably half of us wiped out
because it was so elaborate no one could keep the
schedule. It was like 10 second differences. I'm
going to shut the artillery off and 10 seconds
later we're going to land. They came up with all
kinds of cockamamie things like that. Their whole
thinking about this was a conventional warfare.
That if we could catch the VC in the open and take him
on head to head, we could defeat him. That's true,
we could. When I say the VC, I really mean the NVA,
because that's who we're up against. They
wouldn't meet us head-to-head like that. We'd
already heard them too many times for them to meet
us head-on, head-to-head. They'd catch us where
they could and wear us down, just wear us down,
constantly working at us, like dripping water on a
stone. Sooner or later, it's going to be all of it.
But our commanders wanted to fight a conventional
war in an unconventional situation and use all
their toys, like the helicopters, the B-52s out of
Guam, all this stuff, and believe that because of
all this might, we were invincible. I think Gideon
showed the Amalekites that they weren't. I
believe he had 300, and they had 10,000 or
something like that. So might is not always right,
but our commanders believed that it was. And they
were foolish. And they expected us to be fools too.
You said too much West Point. Mm-hmm. You think it
got too technological to buy the paper. Buy the
paper. Too much West Point. The Klan.
They're still fighting Napoleon's battles. The
guy I like to lead me is A fella that used to be a loan
officer down at the bank got something to live for.
He wants to get this damn thing over with and go
home. And the best way to get it over with is to kick
their butt until they can't be kicked anymore, and
then we win. Pick up the marbles and go. I like those
kind of people. They're level-headed. They've
got a little savvy about what's right and what's
wrong, not about what gets them ticket punched and
their career advanced. Ticket punching was the
order of the day in Vietnam for career senior
officers. Captains were a dime a dozen. I was
offered direct to first lieutenant several
times, turned it down. If I'd have taken it one year
later, I'd have been a captain. The congressional
cap on the amount of captains we could have in the
Army was lifted completely. There was no limit.
They wanted captains to take the heat for
something. captain is exactly the right level.
He's a company commander. We're not going to risk
our West Point lieutenant colonel or major when we
can get some OCS captain or direct commission guy
in there that was a lone officer in the bank back
home. Stuff like this or just was in the wrong place
at the wrong time and got made a captain. Those are
the guys I'll follow. Those are the guys I'd love to
lead. That's most of what I have, which is plain GI
Joe Nothing fancy. They just wanted to get over
with it and go home. You said G.I. Joe's. How much of
a difference do you think there were between the
professional soldiers like yourself and the
selective service? The draftees? The best
soldiers I ever met. They kept us old pros in line.
The ones I always had the most trouble with, where
the kids that enlisted asked for it and didn't
really realize what they were getting into and
weren't mature enough to accept what they had
stumbled into. The draftee, he was there to do his
time, get it over with, and go home. As far as that
goes in Vietnam, once it got to a point, everybody
was the same. Of course, the professional
hardcore like myself We just kept on keeping on.
And it boiled down to just basic leadership. Could
you get along with people? Could you get them to do
what you wanted them to do? Rank and authority only
went so far. It was just a hand grenade away from not
having any existence at all. So it was real obvious
to me, having come up through the ranks, a Mustang,
and having been a sergeant, first-line leader and
things like that, that you don't just tell people
what to do. That's not leadership. You've got to
work with them. You've got to be there with them.
You've got to take the same risks, sleep in the same
mud, eat the same rotten grub, or don't eat it. And I
never ate unless my crew was fed first. Never. And
out of that, I got their loyalty And there were
times when I asked them to do things that were
literally impossible, but they did it. And they
always
came through for me. And I brought
them all home. The spectrum of the war just totally
covered, affected the United States so much. you
know, the anti-war protests and stuff. And my
next, you know, line of questions were going to
cover the media involvement in it, and what you saw
their effect was.
Far away. I mean, what overall do you think the, how
did the media affect the war? Very much so. When you
say the media, that's the plural. Newspapers,
television, radio, the whole nine yards. For the
first time in the history of the world, you had a war
a world away in your living room, literally hours
after it occurred, on television, in living
color. And uncensored. They could say and do
anything they wanted to do. It'd be incredible to
think about it right now with satellite
capability that we didn't have then. My God, you
could be right in the middle of a battle as it is
occurring. This is a live report from the front.
We're going to John Jones up there, and he's
getting shot at even as we speak. We could do that
now. It was almost that then. And every night it was
the same thing. One of the things that turned most
of us military against the media, the
professional corps, was the fact that they
weren't on our side. What we didn't realize was why
they weren't on our side. We didn't know. We did not
have a plan to win. They knew it. And they took
incidents like the police chief in Saigon
summarily executing a guy on the street and I'm not
going to judge one way or the other. Stuff happens
and it happens fast. But they took things like that
and they hit people with it. I objected greatly to
their reports of Tet 68. They were reporting
literally within hours of occurrence getting it
on some sort of a feedback to the states that we were
losing the war. In fact, we were winning. One of the
things that they failed to mention after they had
said all the horrible, ugly things we'd done and
all the people we'd killed in the Waifu Bay area,
they seemed to have neglected to remember that the
NVA and the VC infrastructure that came in there
executed 5,000 to 8,000 people in a period of about
a week or so. or a month, I don't know exactly how
long ago. I've got the figures in one of my
references. But executed these people because
they were teachers, lawyers, they were leaders in
the community and things like that. Literally
executed them and buried them in a mass grave. They
never really brought all that out. They were just
after our own people. That disturbed us greatly. I
had some personal dealings with... television
crew and reporters. And their arrogance was
beyond mine. And that was pretty bad. I was pretty
arrogant. I was a shit-hot jet-jumper.
And I couldn't be killed. Well, I earned mine. They
just did theirs. I didn't like them at all. I still
don't like the way they portray things, but
through them I learned a lot of the truths of what
really went on. what was going on behind the scenes
in the Congress, in the executive branch, the
things that affected me out there at Contum Army
Airfield. But I still don't like the way they did
it. They tend to blow things out of proportion. And
they put it in everybody's living room, and they
helped cut us down.
I don't think they really knew they were doing it,
though. You get right down to it. It borders on
aiding and abetting the enemy, but I don't think
they knew they were doing it. They didn't mean to,
and I believe they did that for a second. But they
could have done a better job for the grunt. Rather
than trying to stop the war strategically, they
could have helped in supporting our efforts. And
we know now how important that was to the North
Vietnamese government. was they knew that we did
not have the popular support, therefore they
continued to press the point. Just like the
neighborhood bully, if he knows you're not going
to hit him and fight back, he's going to pick on you
even more until he gets the indication that you're
going to hurt him bad and that you have the rest of
the neighborhood's support. As long as the
neighborhood's not going to stop him, he's going
to continue to push everybody around. But as soon
as the neighborhood stands up and says, we're not
taking any of this anymore off you, butch, he's
going down.
The same rule applies. They didn't help us. They
did hurt us. And I did not like them. And I still
don't like them. You were married throughout this
time. I mean, that must have had...
a devastating effect on your family back home,
seeing this on television. Yes, it did. I mean, how
did you see that? My children were quite small. My
son, who was the youngest, was born in 1971, just
before I went back to my second tour. My oldest
daughter was born before I went back to Germany the
second time. My youngest daughter was born five
days before I graduated from flight school.
They're Vietnam veterans, too. I didn't realize
that until just a few years ago. And to give them the
credit for it, they've had to live with the effect
of what happened to me and what happened in those
days. My daughters were too young to realize what
they were seeing on the news. I don't think they
even watched it, but my wife did. And I showed you my
map on the wall. That was her map. And she surmised
where I was at. I wouldn't tell her. She finally
figured it out. And it was while I was home on that
unauthorized R&R back to the States for my
daughter's birthday, my unit had been hit pretty
bad in a night attack. And the news just said a
helicopter base north of Pleiku. And when he did, I
jerked around in my chair. And at that moment, my
wife knew where it was. She said, I knew it. It's a
contoon. Well, I think on it now, how did she do it i
knew what was going on with me i was there and i had a
little bit of control over what happened to me i
could elect not to go into an area if i wanted to and i
was in control of my aircraft and i knew when to zig
and zag all she could do was sit and wait for some guy
to drive up in front of the house in a uniform and
walk slowly up the walk and knock at the door. I
think about that now, and I think how much stronger
she is than I am. I couldn't have done that. I
couldn't have sat still for it. I would have gone
nuts. But she did it, day in and day out, for two
tours. And then she put up with what was left over
for all these years since then. And she stayed by me
through all of it. And it got pretty bad for a while.
She talked me out of a divorce three times. Quite a
gal. Not the most glamorous thing in the world, but
her loyalty knows no end. And I still wonder why she
stuck with me. I'm no prize. But it did have a great
effect on her. And a lot of all the veterans'
families. I lost my family because of the war. My
own mother called me a baby killer and a murderer.
To this day, I don't know where she's at. After my
father died, she sold everything and left. Just
picked up and took off. And I haven't seen her
since. Don't even know where she's at. But they
turned against me. Even my dad didn't want that
much to do with me anymore. The one uncle that was in
Europe in World War II, in the infantry, he's the
only one that I ever get along with anymore. And we
don't talk about it. It's just that we know. And
it's enough that we know. So it devastated the
families. Many families didn't survive it.
And there's a poem out, it's a rather long one, by a
guy named Steve Mason. No. Steve Mason wrote the
book Chicken House. A fellow named Mason. And he
addresses that, the wall within, the name of the
poem. I can't even begin to quote it. But some of the
things that he points out in this, they go right to
the heart of it. How many long-distance telephone
callers were there? How many The kids got a good
stepdad out of the deal. Did their Vietnam veteran
father not love them? No. He loved them too much to
stay around and hurt them anymore. He couldn't
stand the pain anymore. The effect on the families
was enormous, incredible. And those families
that did survive, survival of the fittest. Those
families that didn't, it's difficult for me to
condemn them anymore. I used to because I was
ignorant and didn't know any
better. But to finally realize what they had to put
up with and the enormity of it, I can have a better
understanding for it. I'm extremely fortunate.
My old gal has stuck by me through thick and thin.
And I don't know of any other woman that I know, and I
know of a lot of them, that would have done that. I
know of none that can compare to her. And when I
think of heroes, she's mine. When I think of
character and integrity, she's the example.
How do you feel, because you were talking about
your uncle before World War II, how do you feel, I
mean, the Vietnam War seems... so different from
the rest of them. It wasn't as popular. Well,
that's the key word. Popular. What's popular? A
common goal. We didn't have a common goal. I think
initially that they were radicals that were just
against the government, and that happened to be
the event of the day, and they picked up on it. I
don't put anything past the communists. They'll
take advantage of any situation they can, any way
they can, especially if they can get somebody else
to take the rap for them. And I've seen it too many
times all over the world, every place I've ever
been. They got in there and got it stirred up too.
But here we had this faction that was saying, no,
it's wrong. this is, you know, we're trying to
impose our will upon a government. In fact, we're
trying to establish a government outside the
government. And they were right. Only we couldn't
believe something like that was possible in this
country. But it was. And it was happening. These
young radicals, many of them recognize it, tried
to tell the rest of us the truth. We wouldn't listen
because we were too caught up in our old ways. We had
been taught ways for Had the wisdom of generations
before us pounded into us from birth. You get a job,
you settle down, you work hard, you raise your
kids, you go to church, you do whatever you want.
And this is the way you do it. This is the American
way. And that's the way we believe it should be. The
good guys win. And so on and so forth. But it wasn't
that way. At all. And we wouldn't listen. So we lost
the popularity. There was no common goal. For us to
help that country defeat the communists, no, that
was a convenient thing for us to take on the
communists, head to head, try out some new ideas
and weapon systems and so on. Had it been for that,
the helicopter wouldn't have gotten the
development that it realizes today. It would
still be in its infant stages.
So the popularity is what we lack. There was no
Hitler. There was no Hirohiko. Ho Chi Minh was an
abstract thing. Like the guy said, it was a dirty,
nasty little war, but it was the only one us
professionals had to fight, and by God, we were
going to fight it. It was the only one they'd let us
fight, and we wanted to fight it. We're scrappers.
That's why we do this stuff.
So the difference between World War II and
Vietnam, look at Korea, the same thing. It was an
unpopular war. But the convention of the day,
people just didn't do that, like what happened in
68 and 67 and 69, the riots and the Chicago 7, the
bombings of university ROTC departments and
computers and stuff like that. The convention of
the day wouldn't allow things like that, World War
II, Korea. The new age, the age of Aquarius that
came into the 60s, the openness, that allowed it to
happen. Everybody wanted to throw off the
shackles of the old stoic establishment. And a lot
of us knew that if you did that, it would be chaos.
And it was. I like to think that something good came
out of the whole mess, but I hate to think that
nothing did. But we did not have the popular
support of the people. the VC did. Now that ought to
tell future leaders and future generations
something. You don't have the population behind
you. You're nowhere. And we were trying to win
their hearts and minds by blowing them
up. Do you feel that the I mean, going back to the
question of the media, do you feel that the media
was a...
Contributing factor? Or was a contributing
factor to the riots and the anti-war? They were a
contributing factor, and that's all. Or do you
think that it was the other way around? I think
after a certain point during the late 60s, they
each began to feed upon each other. The media saw
the riots, showed it, advertised it, populized
it, and then the riots took advantage of the media,
just like the terrorists of the late 70s and early
80s did. If they wouldn't get the media coverage,
they wouldn't have any reason to do anything
because they would not be believing that they were
held in such popularity. all the terrorist
activities in the late 70s and early 80s, every one
of them said, we want TV coverage. Well, it began to
feed on itself. Now the media has become the victim
of it. But that's their problem. Do you think there
was any condemnation? I mean, was the media more
radical because of the feelings in the United
States? There's an old adage in... News reporting
is if there's not any news, go make some. And
they're all guilty of that. And they admit it. I've
heard them admit it dozens of times. They all know
that. It boils down to the responsibility in
reporting. Where do you go? How far do you go? What
are you trying to say? Are you just trying to get
better ratings, sell more newspapers, and so on
and so forth? Especially television news
reporting, they're after ratings, period,
advertising dollars. That's mercenary, the
worst kind of mercenary as far as I'm concerned.
And the more spectacular thing that they can come
up with, the better their rating is going to be. And
they have ways of judging and engaging in this that
are accurate. Really accurate.
Accurate enough to sell advertising.
Multi-million dollar packages, which is what
they're after. It's a business. But it's business
creates chaos. Shifting a bit to the anti-war
protests, you
were saying, I've kind of picked from what you're
saying, that there's mainly like two reasons.
It's said that the 50s were a silent generation,
and it seems that the 60s just seem to be tired of
this.
Why do you think they were anti-war protests to
begin with? It started out as a legitimate thing.
And from what I see now, looking back on it now, at
the time I didn't know all this stuff because I was
basically uneducated.
Highly motivated, sincere, but stupid.
Ignorant. But looking back on it now, the kids
coming out of the 50s into the 60s, coming up behind
me, they had had all of the depression, war
stories, and stuff like that, that they were going
to take and say, hey, this is mine, I'm taking hold
of it. And the whole world opened up before them.
Things changed rapidly. Attitudes, the whole
nine yards. The Timothy Leary's came on the scene,
and they started preaching their gospel. Free
love and cheap drugs, so on and so forth. Everybody
had to try it. People forgot how to handle the
stress that came into their lives. I don't
remember in the 50s of things being stressful like
this. Leads right on into the recent times, such as
up in Dallas several years ago, when suicides were
the rule of the day of teenage kids in school, in
high school, committing suicide because they
couldn't take it anymore, couldn't take the
pressure. Really weird. So that all started back
in the early 60s, and it just, a door opened like a
Pandora's box. And once the flood started, it
ripped out all the doorposts and reinforcements
and it was wide open. So it began to feed upon
itself. And the bigger it got, the more people
jumped into it because it was so large they could be
anonymous and still express themselves
physically. That's my understanding of it. It may
be way out in left field, but it helps me forgive
them if they have anything to be forgiven for. And
that takes the pressure off of me. Because the
whole thing was so enormous that no amount of
avenging would ever wipe away its damage. Only
forgiveness would wipe it off. It takes all the
pressure off of me.